I think when I was I don't know five or
six or something I thought I was
insane it was just
strange because it was clear that other
people did
not would their mind wasn't exploding
with ideas it was
like hm I'm
strange I don't think I don't think
you'd necessarily want to be me people
would like it that
much it's very hard to turn it
off it's like a NeverEnding
explosion all the
[Music]
time you've said that this has been the
toughest year for you the most sort of
taxing year for you like why well I mean
Tesla really faced a sever uh thre
threat of death uh due to the model 3
production R essentially the company was
bleeding money like crazy and and just
if if we didn't solve these problems in
a very short period of time uh we would
die uh and it was extremely difficult to
solve them how close to death did you
come we
within single digit weeks 22 hours a day
like what how many hours yeah so 7 days
a week sleeping in the factory uh I
worked every from the I worked in the
worked in the Paint Shop General
Assembly Body Shop you ever worry about
yourself imploding like it just too much
absolutely no one
should put this many hours into work
work this is not
good and people should not work this
hard I'm not they should not do this
this is very painful painful in what
sense it hurts my hurts my brain and my
heart it
hurts this is not recommended for anyone
I just did it because if I didn't do it
then
Tesla good chance Tes would
die what was your biggest failure and
how did it change you we we almost did
die at SpaceX actually so we I budgeted
for for three flights um I mean
technically I did have a plan where I
had a had the money from PayPal I had
like about 180 million from PayPal I
thought you know I I'll allocate half of
that to SpaceX and Tesla and Solar City
and um that should be fine I'll have 90
million like that's Lots you know uh but
but then what happened is um things cost
more and took longer than than I thought
so had a choice of either put the rest
of the money in or the companies are
going to die um and it's like so put
ended up putting all the money in and
baring money were rent from
friends when we started Tesla I thought
maybe our chance of success was
10% that's not a lot considering you
invested a lot of money in the in the
company uh yeah um well I mean I can
tell you my original plan um was was I
thought okay I I had like $180 million
from my perent my portion of the sale of
of uh PayPal and I thought you know if I
invest half of that uh in creating these
companies then I still have the other
half which will be fine yeah but of
course that's not how it worked
out we used up all the that you know you
invested 100 million then still needed
more money uh and then there was the big
recession of 2008 and9 and in the end I
had to invest everything and um I was
borrowing money from FS to pay the rent
you were on the edge of actually I I
didn't even a
house were you a little naive when you
thought I just I can easily build build
an electric car and and a rocket I
didn't think it would be easy
um I like I said I thought they would
probably fail um but you know like
creating a Company is almost like having
a child so it's sort of like how do you
say your child should not have
food so one once you have the company
you have to feed it and nurse it and
take care of of it even if it it ruins
you
yeah but uh supp was there wasn't tough
times in uh
2008 end of 2008 how did you get through
that period of
Crisis
yeah we just break for a second
sure you want to wait little
while and I sure up it was worth it sure
up so me sure up it was worth
it if you have an advice to them young
people globally who want to be like Elon
Musk what's your advice
it I think that
probably they shouldn't want to be you
it it I think it sounds better than it
is
um yeah it's uh not as much fun being me
as you'd think there's definitely it
could be worse for sure but it's um I
I'm not sure I would I'm not sure I want
to be
me depending upon how well you want to
do particularly if you're starting a
company you need to work super hard so
what what does super hard mean um well
when my brother and I were starting our
first company uh in instead of getting
an apartment we just rented a a small
office and we slept on the couch um and
we we showered at the the YMCA and uh
we're we're so hot up we had just one
computer so the this the the website was
up during the day uh and I was coding at
night 7 days a week all the
time um and I I uh so briefly had a
gfriend in that period and in order to
be with me she have to sleep in the
office so I work hard like it I mean
every waking hour that's that's the the
thing I would I would say if if you
particularly if you're starting a
company just work like hell I mean you
just have to put in you know 80 hour 80
to 100 hour weeks every
week and then work that all those things
improve the odds of success
um I mean if if if other people are
putting in 40-hour work weeks and you're
putting in 100h hour work weeks then
even if uh you're doing the same thing
you know that in in one year you will
achieve what they achieve you will
achieve in four months what it takes
them a year to achieve trying to build a
company and have it succeed is like
eating glass and staring into the abyss
I mean what tends to happen is it's sort
of quite exciting for the first several
months of starting a company and then
then reality sets in things don't go as
well as planned customers aren't signing
up the technology of the product isn't
working as well as you thought um and um
and then can that can sometimes be
compounded by a recession um and uh it
can be very very painful for several
years um so I think um frankly starting
a
company I would advise people to have a
high pain tolerance
when you had that third failure in a
row did you think I need to pack this in
never why not I don't ever give up I
mean I'd have to be dead or completely
incapacitated so many people try to talk
me out of starting a r company it was it
was crazy what did they tell you one
good friend of mine collected a whole
series of of uh videos of rockets
blowing up and made me watch those you
just didn't want me to lose all my money
how did you figure you were going to
start a car company and be successful at
it well I didn't really think Tesla
would be successful I thought we would
most likely fail but I thought that we
at least could address the false
perception that people had that an
electric car had to be ugly and slow and
and boring like a golf cart but you say
you didn't expect the company to be
successful then why try if something's
important enough you should try even if
the probably outcome is failure and it's
actually been a very difficult journey I
have to say um my priority right now is
to try to add some more uh management uh
bench strength to Tesla in particular so
that um I can take a vacation in the
last 12 years I've only tried to take a
week off twice the first time I took a a
week off the orbital science's rocket
exploded and Richard Branson's rocket
exploded in that same week second time I
took a week off my rocket
exploded the lesson here is don't take a
week off you know there are American
Heroes who don't like this idea Neil
Armstrong Jean cernon have both
testified against commercial space
flight in the way that you're developing
it and I wonder what you think of
that I was very sad to see that um
because those guys are
yeah you know those guys are heroes of
mine so it's really tough you know I I
wish they would come and visit and and
see the hardware that we during camp and
and I think that would change their
mind they inspired you to do this didn't
they
yes and to see them casting stones in
your
direction it's
difficult did you expect them to cheer
you
on soly hoping they would what are you
trying to prove to them what I'm trying
to do is is to make
a significant difference in in space
flight and and and help make space
flight accessible to to almost
anyone where does that come from or how
do you think about making a decision
when everyone tells you this is a crazy
idea or where do you get the internal
strength to do that well first of all
I'd say I I actually think I I I think I
fear feel fear quite strongly um so it's
not as though I just have the absence of
fear I feel it quite strongly um but
there are just times when something is
important enough you've believe in it
enough that you you do it in spite of
fear people should think well I feel
fear about this and therefore I
shouldn't do it um it's normal to be to
feel fear like you'd have to defin do
something mentally wrong if you didn't
feel
fair so so I think that there's certain
things that are necessary to ensure that
the future is
good um and some of those things are in
the long-term having long-term
sustainable transport and sustainable
energy
generation um and uh to be a space
bearing
civilization and for Humanity to be out
there among the stars and be a
multiplanetary uh
species um I mean I think being a
multiplan species and being out there
Among the Stars is important for uh the
long-term survival of humanity and
uh that's one reason kind of like life
insurance for Life collectively Life as
we know it um but then the part that I
find personally most motivating is that
it creates a sense of
adventure and it makes people excited
about the
future um and if you consider two
Futures one where uh we are forever
confined to Earth until eventually
something terrible happens or another
future where we are out there on many
planets maybe even going beyond the
solar system um I think that second
version is incredibly exciting and
inspiring and there need to be reasons
to get up in the morning there's a lot
of terrible things that are happening
all over the world all the time uh there
are lots of problems that need to get
solved there lots of things that are
yeah that are miserable and kind of get
you
down but that life cannot just be about
solving one miserable problem after
another can't that can't be the only
thing there need to be need to be things
that inspire you that make you glad to
be to wake up in the morning and be part
of
humanity that's why we did this


All right.
I’d like to thank you for leaving ‘crazy
person’ out of the description.
So, I thought — I was trying to think what’s
the most useful thing that I – what I can
say that can actually be helpful and useful
to you in the future.
And I thought, perhaps tell the story of how
I sort of came to be here.
How did these things happen?
And maybe there are lessons there.
I often find myself wondering, how did this
happen.
When I was young, I didn’t really know what
I was going to do when I got older.
People kept asking me.
But then eventually, I thought the idea of
inventing things would be really cool.
And the reason I thought that was because
I read a quote from Arthur C. Clark which
said that “A sufficiently advanced technology
is indistinguishable from magic.’
And that’s really true.
If you go back say, 300 years, the things
we take for granted today, you’d be burned
at stake for.
Being able to fly.
That’s crazy.
Being able to see over long distances, being
able to communicate, having effectively with
the Internet as a group mind of sorts, and
having access to all the world’s information
instantly from almost anywhere on the earth.
This stuff that really would be magic – that
would be considered magic in times past.
In fact, I think it actually goes beyond that,
because there are many things that we take
for granted today that weren’t even imagined
in times past, that weren’t even in the
realm of magic.
So, it actually goes beyond that.
So I thought, well if I can do some of those
things – basically if I can advance technology,
then that is like magic and that would be
really cool.
I always had an existential crisis, because
I was trying to figure out ‘what does it
all mean?’
Like what’s the purpose of things?
And I came to the conclusion that if we can
advance the knowledge of the world, if we
can do things that expand the scope and scale
of consciousness, then we’re better able
to ask the right questions and become more
enlightened.
And that’s the only way forward.
So, I studied physics and business, because
I figured in order to do a lot of these things
you need to know how the universe works and
you need to know how the economy works.
And you also need to be able to bring a lot
of people together to work with you to create
something.
Because it’s very difficult to do something
as individuals if it’s a significant technology.
So, I originally came out to California to
try to figure out how to improve the energy
density of electric vehicles – basically
to try to figure out if there was an advanced
capacitor that could serve as an alternative
to batteries.
And that was in 1995.
That’s also when the Internet started to
happen.
And I thought well I could either pursue this
technology, where success may not be one of
the possible outcomes, which is always tricky,
or participate in the Internet and be part
of it.
So, I decided to drop out.
Fortunately, we’re past graduation, so,
I can’t be accused of recommending that
to you.
And I did some Internet stuff, you know.
I’ve done a few things here and there.
One of which is PayPal.
Maybe it’s helpful to say, one of the things
that was important then in the creation of
PayPal was how it started.
Because initially – the initial thought
with PayPal was to create a conglomeration
of financial services, so if you have one
place where all of your financial services
needs could be seamlessly integrated and works
smoothly.
And we had a little feature, which was through
e-mail payments.
Whenever we’d show the system off to someone,
we’d show the hard part, which was the conglomeration
of financial services, which is quite difficult
to put together.
Nobody was interested.
Then we showed people e-mail payments, which
was quite easy, and everybody was interested.
So, I think it’s important to take feedback
from your environment.
You want to be as closed-loop as possible.
So, we focused on e-mail payments and tried
to make that work.
And that’s what really got things to take
off.
But, if we hadn’t responded to what people
said, then we probably would not have been
successful.
So, it’s important to look for things like
that and focus on them when you seem them,
and you correct your prior assumptions.
Going from PayPal, I thought well, what are
some of the other problems that are likely
to most affect the future of humanity?
It really wasn’t from the perspective of,
‘what’s the best way to make money,’
which is okay, but it was really ‘what do
I think is going to most affect the future
of humanity.’
So, the biggest terrestrial problem we’ve
got is sustainable energy.
But the production and consumption of energy
in a sustainable manner.
If we don’t solve that in this century,
we’re in deep trouble.
And the other one being the extension of life
beyond earth to make life multi-planetary.
So that’s the basis for — the latter is
the basis for SpaceX and the former is the
basis for Tesla and SolarCity.
When I started SpaceX, initially, I thought
that well, there’s no way one could start
a rocket company.
I wasn’t that crazy.
But then, I thought, well, what is a way to
increase NASA’s budget?
That was actually my initial goal.
I thought well if we could do a low-cost mission
to Mars, something called Mars Oasis, which
would land with seeds in dehydrated nutrient
gel, then hydrate them upon landing.
And you’d have this great short of money
shot of green plants on a red background.
The public tends to respond to precedence
and superlatives.
And this would be the first life on Mars and
the furthest life had ever traveled as far
as we know.
And I thought well that would get people really
excited and increase NASA’s budget.
So obviously the financial outcome from such
a mission would probably be zero.
So, anything better than that was on the upside.
So, I went to Russia three times to look at
buying a refurbished ICBM… because that
was the best deal.
And I can tell you it was very weird going
there in late 2001-2002 going to the Russian
rocket forces and saying, ‘I’d like to
buy two of your biggest rockets, but you can
keep the nuke.’
That’s a lot more.
That was 10 years ago, I guess.
They thought I was crazy, but I did have money.
So, that was okay.
After making several trips to Russia, I came
to the conclusion that… that actually my
initial impression was wrong about – because
my initial thought was, well, that there is
not enough will to explore and expand beyond
earth and have a Mars base, that kind of thing.
But I came to the conclusion that was wrong.
In fact, there’s plenty of will, particularly
in the United States.
Because United States is a nation of explorers,
so people who came here from other parts of
the world.
I think the United States is really a distillation
of the spirit of human exploration.
But if people think it’s impossible, then
well it’s going to completely break the
federal budget, then they’re not going to
do it.
So, after my third trip, I said, okay, what
we really need to do here is try to solve
the space transport problem and started SpaceX.
And this was against the advice of pretty
much everyone I talked to.
One friend made sit down and watch a bunch
of videos of rockets blowing up.
Let me tell you he wasn’t far wrong.
It was tough going there in the beginning.
Because I never built anything physical.
I mean I built like a model rocket as a kid
and that kind of thing.
But I never had a company that built any physical.
So, I had to figure out how to do all these
things and bring together the right team of
people.
And we did all that, and then, failed three
times.
It was tough, tough going.
Because the thing about a rocket is, the passing
grade is 100%.
And you don’t get to actually test the rocket
in the real environment that is going to be
in.
So, I think to the best analogy for rocket
engineers is, if you want to create a really
complicated beta software, you can’t run
the software as an integrated whole, and you
can’t run it on the computer, it’s intended
to run on.
For the first time you put it all together
and run it on that computer, it must run with
no bugs.
That’s basically the essence of it.
So, we missed the mark there.
Think about a rocket, the passing grade is
100%.
And you don’t get to actually test the rocket
in the real environment that is going to be
in.
So, I think the best analogy for rocket engineers
is, if you want to create a really complicated
software, you can’t run the software as
an integrated whole, and you can’t run it
on the computer, it’s intended to run on,
but the first time you run it on the computer,
it must run with no bugs.
That’s basically the essence of it.
So, we missed the mark there.
The first launch, I was picking up bits of
rocket near the launch site, it was a bit
sad.
And we learned with each successive flight.
And we were able to, eventually with the fourth
flight in 2008, reach orbit.
That was also with the last bit of money that
we had.
Thank goodness that happened.
I think the saying is ‘fourth time is the
charm?’
So, we got the Falcon 1 to orbit.
And then, began to scale it up to the Falcon
9 which is about an order of magnitude more
thrust, it’s around a million pounds of
thrust.
We managed to get that to orbit, and then
developed the Dragon spacecraft, which recently
was able to dock and returned to earth from
the space station.
Thanks.
That 
was a white-knuckle event.
It is a huge relief.
I still can’t believe it actually happened.
But there’s lot more that must happen beyond
this in order for humanity to become a spacefaring
civilization and ultimately a multi-planet
species.
And that’s something I think it’s vitally
important.
And I hope that some of you will participate
in that either at SpaceX or other companies.
Because it’s just really one of the most
important things for the preservation and
extension of consciousness.
It’s worth noting as I’m sure people are
aware that Earth has been around for 4 billion
years, but civilization in terms of having
writing has been about 10,000 years, and that’s
being generous.
So, it’s really somewhat of a tenuous existence
that civilization and consciousness has been
on earth.
I’m actually fairly optimistic about the
future of earth.
I don’t want to people sort of have the
wrong impression like we’re all about to
die.
I think things will most likely be okay for
a long time on earth.
Not for sure, but, most likely.
But even if it’s 99% likely, a 1% chance
is still worth spending a fair bit of effort
to ensure that we have — back up the biosphere,
and planetary redundancy if you will.
And I think it’s really quite important.
And in order to do that, there’s breakthrough
that needs to occur which is to create a rapidly
and completely reusable transport system to
Mars, which is one of those things that’s
right on the borderline of even impossible.
But that’s the sort of the thing that we’re
going to try to achieve with SpaceX.
And then, on the Tesla front, the goal with
Tesla was really to try to show what electric
cars can do.
Because people had the wrong impression, and
we had to change people’s perceptions of
electric vehicle.
Because they used to think of it as something
that was slow and ugly, with low range, like
a golf cart.
So, that’s why we created the Tesla Roadster,
to show that it can be fast, attractive and
long range.
And it’s amazing how — even though you
can show that something works on paper, and
the calculations are very clear, until you
actually have the physical object, and they
can drive it, it doesn’t really sink in
for people.
So that I think is something worth nothing.
If you’re going to create a company, the
first thing you should try to do is create
a working prototype.
Everything looks great on PowerPoint.
You can make anything work on PowerPoint.
But, if you have an actual demonstration article,
even if it’s in primitive form, that’s
much more effective in convincing people.
So, we made the Tesla Roadster, and now we’re
coming out soon with model S, which is a 4-door
sedan.
Because after we made the Tesla Roadster people
said, ‘oh sure, sure we always knew you
could make a car like that, it’s an expensive
car and it’s low volume and small and all
that but can you make a real car?’
Okay, fine, we’re going to make that, too.
So, that’s coming out soon.
And so that’s where things are and hopefully,
there are lessons to be drawn there.
I think the overreaching point I want to make
is that: You guys are the magicians of the
21st century.
Don’t let anything hold you back.
Imagination is the limit.
Go out there and create some magic.
Thank you.